# Restaurant Survey

This project is built using the language python, i built it with the focus of analyzing survey data. So that the user can get an insight of the results generated by the survey.
Here is a link to the live appplication - https://restaurant-survey-project.herokuapp.com/

## Features 

Features that i have decided to include in my program are few but useful.
first which includes taking the results of the complete survey and then getting the averege of that result to provide an overall rating.
The second feature is the averege of each question, which is then pushed to the excel file, in a worksheet called avereges.
The third feature i decided to include was for the user to get an overview of the areas which needs improvement, so i categorized the results from the averege and then converted the resulst into words and pushed them into the worksheet called improvement.
The last and final feature is a feature so that user can decide through the terminal what the user wants to do with the program so that not all the functions will run at once.


### Existing Features

- __Generating rating__

  - The first feature of the program, as told above. gives the user an overview of what the overall experience of the averege customer.
  - It allows the user to easily gather information needed from the survey. 


- __Averege of each question__

  - This feature will pull the latest 10 surveys done from the excel file, get the averege of each question and the push the results back to a worksheet called avereges. 
  - With this feature the user can get an overview in numbers of what particular areas are in need of improvement.


- __Improvements__

  - With this feature the results are categorized in different sections, the resulsts are then converted into words and then pushed to a worksheet called improvements. 
  - What this does, is to give the user a clear understanding of the areas in need of most attention. 


- __User-input__

  - This feature is what makes the whole program an application, it gives the user the ability to decide what it wants from the application by simply typing it into the terminal. 
  - The idea of this feature is so that the excel file wont be cluttered with results. 
- __The Actual Survey__
  - Here you can find the link to the survey - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1SiEa384vwix3LkwKskuShKbh6OcrO0AS-1Wfs_yrwH0/edit 
  - Here you can find the link to the Excel Sheet - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hX8fVJPXdv9PPyV9_BfxshL2rbuz2A-Ida_BDcCNwUE/edit#gid=657516456

### Features Left to Implement

- Different Features left to implement would be the median of the different questions.
- Another feature would be to optimize the program so that it works better with different surveys. At the moment the survet is only available for surveys which uses a linear grading of the answers.

## Testing 

The testing has been done by me, aswell as my younger brother who is working with python for a living. I have gone through the program to check for different bugs that may have arrised during the development of the
application. During the testing phase I found out that the validation of the user input was flawed, forcing me to enter both statements of the program, but after some tweaking of the code I fixed the problem.
Another issue I found was that the update improve sheet function, pushed the row in a completely different area than it was suppose to, I fixed that by making a copy of the sheet and then deleting the old one.
During the whole development journey of this program i have used the print statement to locate where I am at in the coding to make it easier to get an overview of the progress in which I'm making.

Getting the excel file setup in the beginning was abit complicated but managed to fix it after some trial and error.


### Validator Testing 

- PEP8 
  - 
### Unfixed Bugs

At the moment I am not aware of any unfixed bugs, but I am not completely done with the testing so will update this category if any will arrise during further testing. 

## Deployment

- The application was deployed using the Heroku Cloud Application Platform, using the steps below:
  - When deploying with heroku with the template given from The Code Institute. On all input statements in the run.py file, you need to enter a \n.
  - Then You need to head over to the requirements.txt file, to add all the dependencies installed with python. by typing 'pip3 freeze > requirements.txt'
  - Once this is done, you push the code to github to make sure it is all updated.
  - Then you go to the heroku website and log in. and press Create App.
  - Once you have named and created the application, you need to go the settings tab.
  - In the settings tab we need to add our Credentials to the heroku platform, by pressing reveal config vars. and typing the name of the file in the KEY box.
  - In the box to the right of KEY, You need to go to the credentials file in gitpod, copy the content and paste it in the box named VALUE.
  - After that you scroll down, to the button 'buildpacks' and press add. 
  - To add Python, and node.js. in this order.
  - Once this is complete, You can go to the deployment tab. press connect to github in this case. 
  - Then below, Search for the repository name. And press connect.
  - Once this is complete. The application is ready to be deployed.
  - There is 2 options, either you can choose to automatically deploy, or manually deploy. 
  - I picked the manual deployment method. 

The live link can be found here - https://code-institute-org.github.io/love-running-2.0/index.html 


## Credits 
### Content 

- Most of the content was written by me.
- The media i can reference to is the media in the actual survey created in Google Forms.
- The image taken as a header image, is taken from the library which Google provides on the page.
- The top 15 lines of code in the run.py file, are essentially stolen from the walkalong project I made with The Code Institute.
- The surey i am using, is a survey created from the template of Google Forms.
- The excel file i made.


### Media

- There is no actual media in the application itself, becuase it is run in the terminal.


